# Paper summary <br> [VL2: A Scalable and Flexible Data Center Network](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/vl2-sigcomm09-final.pdf)

#### Summary

VL2(Virtual Layer 2) is a practical network architecture that scales to support huge data center with uniform high capacity between servers, performance isolation between services, and layer-2 semantics.

#### Motivation

To be profitable, data centers much achieve high utilization. For this, the property of agility is key: the capacity to assign any server to any service. With agility DC operators can meet fluctuating demands of individual services from a large shared server pool, yielding better utilization(hence lower costs at scale).

Typical DCs have multiple problems:
  - oversubscribed links due to the tree topology
  - service dependency since a traffic flood towards a server affects adjacent servers
  - VMs which are hard to migrate while keeping IP(due to fragmentation of address space into VLANs)

#### DC study

- majority of flows are small, however long lasting flows carry most of the data
- a machine has typically 10 concurrent flows and rarely more than 80 flows
- traffic patters are hard to predict and are volatile
- most failures are small in size, but large correlated failures yield significant downtimes

### Networking

#### Scale-out Topologies

The paper argues for a folded Clos topology where links between Intermediate switches and the Aggregation switches form a complete biparatite graph. Each top-of-rack(ToR) server is connected to two Aggregation switches. The topology is more scalable since the failure of an Intermediate switch results in graceful degradation of bandwidth.

#### Addressing

Addressing is done by assigning to servers both an Application Address and a Locator Address. The AAs are location independent, while LAs are tied to the topology. An application thinks the servers are located in a Layer 2 topology. A VL2 agent at each server traps and encapsulate packets with the LA address of the ToR of the destination.

Address resolution is done via a Directory System(and caching) and all Ethernet broadcasts(ARP, DHCP, usual broadcasts) are translated in IP multicasts. The Directory Service provides access control as well. Some servers are directly reachable through the Internet, having an LA assigned to them for exposing the services.

#### Routing

Traffic is spread over multiple paths to ensure more equal link utilization. Each flow is spread across a set of paths. Group of paths are created by assigning the same IP address to multiple routers and using anycasts. The path chosen in each anycast is done via ECMP which uses a hash on the source address to decide which path the packet should take.

#### Directory System

The directory system is maintained by a group of(around 50-100) read-optimized replicas together with a write-optimized smaller(5-10 servers) group of servers which keep a replicated state machine through Paxos consensus. The directory servers synchronize with the RSM periodically.

The query lookups are sent to a group of k servers, while writes are done to a single directory-sever which relays the request. The writes are subject to timeouts, while lookups are cached. Caches are updated when traffic arrives to servers with an outdated LA. Then, the agent knows to update the cache entry via a lookup.

#### Properties

- location independent addressing
- L2 network semantics
- performance uniformity
- security 
