# [Pensive](https://people.csail.mit.edu/hongzi/content/publications/Pensieve-Sigcomm17.pdf)

### Paper summary
Pensieve is a system that applies reinforcement learning to adaptive bit rate video streaming algorithms. It uses the actor-critic model, feeding a neural network actor with multiple network condition measurements in order to optimize quality of experience metrics.

### Key insight(s)
This data-driven solution takes into account multiple network conditions(such as past throughput samples, download times, next chunks' sizes), whereas model-based solutions decide based on a single(or a few) of these conditions. Using policy gradient training allows for planning for the long-term as the optimization problem is a global one. The technique is potentially more generalizable since the rewards generated by the critic can be assigned to any quality of transmission metric. Finally, compared to other learning-based approaches, it does not take unreasonable assumptions such as the network bandwidth being Markovian.

### What could be improved?
The general layout of the paper is easy to follow and most points of possible follow-up work are touched upon(online learning, periodic training). There are not many explanations on the choice CNN and the better performance of the shallow network. Further research can be done by trying to correlate QoE metrics with user feedback from videos. Another interesting subject would be applying learning techniques to non-CDN based streaming. (e.g torrent-based streaming)
