# [007](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/nsdi18/nsdi18-arzani.pdf)

### Paper summary
007 is a system used in data centers for detecting the cause of TCP packets drops. It records the path of TCP connections when packets have been retransmitted assigning an equal share of the blame to each link on the path. In this way, each link on the connection receives a vote. This process allows the links to be ranked by the votes, the ranking being correlated with their relative drop rates. The approach is easily deployable since it requires no changes in infrastructure, no changes to the client software and performs well in presence of noise. The paper evaluates the framework via simulations, test cluster, and production deployments.

### Key insight(s)
- The algorithm is based on the observation that in DC traffic when there are packet drops on a link, multiple flows explain this drops.

- Path discovery is done via traceroute. Based on the DC topology the number of path discovery packets can be limited so that switches don't exceed their CPU constraints in terms of ICMP messages handled.

- Tracerouting failure may actually help the algorithm since we can reliably detect the failed link and routing changes are not a problem due to small RTTs.

- To reduce the false positives the values for the votes of links are recalculated after the most voted link has been detected.

- The analysis argument for determining the most probable cause of packet loss is based on the assumption that a single flow is unlikely to pass through multiple failed links.

### What could be improved?
I like the fact that 007 is actually evaluated on a test cluster and then put into production. Moreover, the main idea of the paper is quite intuitive and the analysis and evaluation sections are laid out quite friendly.

The only unclear part for me is the analysis agent. It is said that the votes are centralized to it, but the paper does not explain where it is deployed and how it is connected to the rest of the system(i.e. in-band or out-of-band). On the same note, I do not really understand how epochs are established and if this affects the recall in any noticeable way.

Even though I understood that the purpose of 007 is to explain the cause of drops and not act on it directly, having the analysis agent running distributedly might add advantages for the clients. For example, if the data distributed at all hosts, the client applications can be notified of link failures in real time. Distributing the analysis agent could be done by piggybacking a gossip protocol for distributing the votes on top of the traceroute messages.
